Magic touches every aspect of life on [[Lendis]]. From the magical crafts of the [[Worldbirth Mountains]] to the enchanted semaphore towers of the [[Dragon Empire]] to the rituals and spells that keep the cities safe and functional. But there is a darker side to this magic, one that threatens the entire continent. The Nightmare is a pervasive current of dark magic that stretches across all of Lendis. When it pools and grows in strength, the world changes. People, animals, plants, even natural features warp and twist into horrifying monsters. Most of these Nightmares are mindless and destructive, and seek to kill and despoil whatever they can reach. There exist rituals to block the Nightmare, but due to the expense and power required only major cities are typically warded.

While the Nightmare can manifest anywhere on Lendis, it is strongest in the [[Forest of Night]]. Here, the magic flows thickly, interfering with other magical effects. As a result, the Forest is poorly explored, and no attempts to enter it in force have met with success. Most notably, the Silver [[Dragon Lord]] [[Marilectar]] died leading a crusade to cleanse the Forest. The forts and settlements along the edge of the Forest - [[Dawn Keep]], [[Nightgard]], and [[Drakhold]] - live in a constant state of vigilance under siege.

At irregular intervals, typically 20 to 50 years, the Nightmare grows in power and generates a creature capable of controlling other Nightmares. These [[Scourge|Scourges]] are intelligent and powerful, and emerge from the Forest at the head of an army. The most recent Scourge was a Neothelid known as the [[Mind Flayer]] that invaded the Dragon Empire 34 years ago with an army made of a mixture of Nightmares and mentally enslaved people. It was eventually stopped by the Imperial Army led by three Dragon Lords - although the effort of doing so resulted in the Gold Dragon Lord’s slumber.

As an additional mystery, there exist some species on Lendis that resemble Nightmares, but have some degree of intelligence and can breed true. Giants, Orcs, and Goblins have been treated as Nightmares for their entire existence, and many historical and magical investigations have been probed to try and definitively prove whether they are truly Nightmares. As a result of this, these species have long been unable to secure a place in the world. The orcs are finding slow, grudging acceptance in some areas, but are still regarded as little better than beasts in most. The goblins lurk in the shadows of cities and towns, small tribes scrounging and stealing for survival. The giants have declared themselves masters of the [[Drakwald Mountains]],

and have been slowly driving the dwarves of Drakhold to extinction. The scholarly community typically refers to these species as Nightmarekin, a label that has done little to ease tensions or violence.

Finally, there exist a small number of unfortunate Nightmare Warped people. When the Nightmare grows strong enough to create an event, anyone caught at the very edge of it is exposed to the Nightmare’s power, but not enough to fully mutate them. The result is a pitiful half-mortal half-nightmare creature. Most retain their minds, but find themselves outcast and hated by their former neighbors.

## Adventurers

The Nightmare can pop up nearly anywhere, at any time. Yet an individual village or town is likely to see fewer than one Nightmare Event per generation. As such, there is little need for a standing force of experienced Nightmare hunters. Instead, they are likely to turn to adventurers.

Adventurers are bands of mercenaries who travel through the world offering to deal with Nightmares for a price. As no single location will provide enough Nightmare hunting jobs to support an adventuring group, they tend not to stay in one place for long. As such, it is common for heavily armed bands of mercenaries to visit even small villages a couple times each year, and larger settlements see them visit more frequently.

While adventurers are specialists in fighting Nightmares, they can also be hired for other tasks. Bandits and raiders frequently find themselves tracked down and defeated by adventurers rather than an actual army or other government force.

Due to how useful they are at keeping their people safe from Nightmares and other threats, most governments are willing to tolerate or even welcome adventurers. Official agents keep an eye on adventurers to ensure that these powerful groups don't cause more trouble than they resolve, but in most cases it's easier just to wait for them to move on than to confront them directly.